the UK foreign secretary Lord Cameron
has arrived in Jerusalem for talks with
Israel's leaders about their response to
Iran's drone and missile attack over the
weekend he's also expected to discuss
the continuing humanitarian crisis in
Gaza the United Nations is launching a
2.8 billion appeal to provide Aid to the
Palestinian population in the Gaza Strip
and occupied West Bank with 90% of the
money going towards Gaza meanwhile as
Israel continues to meet to decide how
and when might respond to Iran's missile
and drone attack the US and EU look to
impose new sanctions on Iran the White
House has said they will Target Iran's
missile and drone program and EU foreign
policy Chief Joseph barell said the
block was working on a sanctions plan
after a number of EU Nations requested a
tough response let's get the latest with
our diplomatic correspondent James
landel who's in Jerusalem James welcome
to you what can we expect from David
Cameron's visit there
well I expect him to continue the
message uh of restraint that Western
leaders have been uh calling for uh ever
since Iran attacked this country with
missiles and drones over the weekend uh
the Prime Minister uh had a call with
the uh Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu last night in which he said
escalation was in no one's interests it
would only deepen the insecurity of the
region it was time for calm heads to
Prevail as well as that message though I
think the Prime Minister the foreign
secretary will also be talking to the
Israeli is about what more they can do
to get Aid in to Gaza that's something
that has been I think the focus has
moved away from that because of the
attention on Iran and I think also the
foreign secretary is going to try and
return some of the pressure back onto
those talks to try and get a ceasefire
in Gaza saying look you know it's up to
um you know Hamas uh to accept a deal so
I think those are the areas that he's
likely to discuss when he meets Israeli
leaders and also um those Palestinian
leaders in the occupied West Bank James
what more do we know about possible
sanctions the US and EU are discussing
over
Iran well the Americans said yesterday
that they are going to introduce new
sanctions on Iran specifically over
attacking the supply chains that allow
Iran to build drones and build their
missiles the EU also talking about that
there's a meeting of G7 foreign
ministers in Italy later on today that
um David Cameron Lord Cameron will also
be at they're also going to be talking
um about
as well so I think there's an attempt to
try and keep this Coalition of support
for Israel that has grown as a result of
Iran's uh attack at the weekend and try
to operationalize it if you like and say
look let's what we see what we can do to
put more pressure both diplomatically
and also economically on Iran as a
result but remember sanctions take a
long time to have any practical impact
so in the short term it's purely about
political positioning and putting more
pressure on Tran okay James thank
you well let's speak now to ammen saal
Professor of Middle Eastern studies at
the Australian National University
Welcome to you thanks very much for
being with us let's start with Iran
several days on now from their attack on
Israel what what's the view do you think
in Iran from the upper echelons and
those who were behind this decision to
attack Israel directly do you think they
view this as a a
success well from their perspective it
has been success because they basically
wanted to uh reestablish deterrence and
at the same time send a very strong
signal to uh Israel uh that Iran is not
a paper tiger and it is prepared to
protect its Assets in the region uh
because Iranian attack was very much in
retaliation uh to
Israel's bombing of the Iranian
Consulate in Damascus um but at the same
time Iran has made it clear that it's
not uh there to uh open a big war with
the Israel H and uh it uh retaliation uh
was very measured and it did not really
cause a lot of damage to Israel and it
only targeted military bases uh but of
course uh Israel was not able to uh deal
with the Iranian missiles and drones on
its own in fact many of
those projectiles were shot down by the
Americans and the British and of course
also to some extent jordanians um so it
also the Iranian attack in a way showed
Israel's vulnerability in other words
Israel is no longer an invincible power
and therefore the only Power in the
region and Iranians have really made a
stand yeah you say it was very measured
it crossed a red line by directly
attacking Israel for the first time ever
uh and you say also reestablish
deterrence but we don't know what the
Israeli response is going to be and
there are those calling for a direct
strike on Iran's nuclear facilities
aren't they so it could still escalate
and is that a a risk that the Iranian
regime is is willing to
take well absolutely but now uh it
depends what Israel is going to do and
if Israel wants to uh attack Iranian
military and nuclear facilities and oil
resources uh then obviously that is
going to result in a much uh bigger uh
escalation of this conflict the Iranian
side has made it clear that they will be
uh responding to any Israeli attack in
uh much harsher way than they have uh in
the past and so therefore the scene is
really set for the widening of this
conflict unless Israel is restrained and
of course this is what the United States
and also some of its allies including
Britain are trying to uh do to
basically you know ask Israel uh not to
retaliate or at least not to retaliate
in a way which could result in the
expansion of the conflict doesn't this
leave Iran increasingly isolated and
under pressure at home we saw Jordan
take part in shooting down some of those
drones didn't we we haven't seen any of
those Regional allies come out out in
support or Regional countries come out
in support of Iran and the people of
Iran are under pressure economically as
well they've been of course increasing
protest against the regime over the past
year 18 months so isn't actually the
regime under more
pressure well the regime is under
pressure and uh but I don't think the
regime really expected that the Arab
countries or for that matter Jordon
really coming out in support of Iranian
actions uh I think the the regime is
fully aware that it does not have the
love of everybody in the region but it
does have the support of Russia and has
the support of
China Iran has got very close strategic
ties with these two powers and at the
same time it has got plenty of assets
and region that it can use against
Israel and against the international
supporters of Israel if they decide to
get involved in Israeli LED war with
Iran I'm in cycle thank
you the United Nations has voiced
concerns about escalating violence in
the occupied West Bank it comes after a
wave of attacks sparked by the killing
of an Israeli teenager the UN has
accused Israel's security forces of
active participation in attacks on
Palestinians by Jewish settlers the vast
majority of the International Community
considers the settlements illegal under
international law although Israel
disputes this here Hugo take CAU on CCTV
a man setting fire to a car as Israeli
settlers storm a Palestinian Village in
the occupied West Bank Israeli soldiers
watch outside and appear to do
nothing across the West Bank on the
weekend Israeli settlers went on a
rampage this was the village of M near
ramala on Saturday settlers set houses
and cars on fire killing one man Jihad
Abu alyah he was 25 and planning to get
married in
June Jihad was trying to prevent the
settlers from breaking the house door of
Sam house where dozens of the Town
residents arrived in the home to prevent
them from burning the
house it wasn't the first time settlers
attacked us but we weren't expecting a
huge number of them the violence was
sparked by The Disappearance of this
Israeli boy 14-year-old bamin aim he
went missing on on Friday and a day
later was found dead the Israeli Army
says he was murdered the attacks show
how tensions in the West Bank are
escalating since the Hamas attacks on
the 7th of October more than 460
Palestinians and 13 Israelis have been
killed if nothing changes there will be
even more violence for this campaign and
monitoring settlement activity the
situation is
unprecedented I think that H the level
of the violence is the highest that I
remember they feel also a lot of support
from the government and probably from
the public Le their public that their
violence is kind of
necessary against the evil which are the
Palestinians it's not only settler
violence that's on the rise raids by the
Israeli Army have intensified killing
many
Palestinians the Israeli Army says it's
investigating the aren incident caught
on CCTV
but across the West Bank many
Palestinians are living in fear they
wonder when the next attack will come
Hugo basa BBC News Jerusalem